Hey guys, welcome to Silicon Valley
Girl. We are about to interview the
founder of Duolingo.
Oh.
Oh, no, no, no. No, Duo, not you.
No, no, no.
Do we have the actual founder?
Hi. Hi. Hello. Your employees are
getting a little
creative.
We pay that guy and he has his own
personality. He just does what he wants.
AI is not going to take your job.
Somebody using AI is going to take your
job.
>> This is Luis von Ahn, CEO of Duolingo.
Recently, two of his employees built a
chess course with AI in 6 months. No
engineering background, no knowledge of
the subject. It became the fastest
growing course in the company. There are
a lot of rumors that large companies are
firing people and they say it's AI.
>> We have never done a layoff. Despite
what the internet may think, it is
important to continue hiring people
because a single employee is just way
more productive now than they used to
be. I'm going to name five professions
and you're going to make some
predictions. Gone in 5 years or not
going anywhere.
There'll be fewer and fewer.
Luis, you told your team that nobody
gets hired unless team proves AI can do
the work first.
Can you tell me how you actually track
that as a founder? Uh our goal here is
to use AI
uh to benefit our users. Internally, we
have this golden rule. We're only going
to use AI to benefit our learners. Some
people may imagine that you know, some
companies may be firing people and and
having AI do their job. That's not what
we're doing whatsoever. Our team has
gotten
uh significantly better at using AI over
the last, you know, couple of years. And
that has allowed us to do a lot more. It
has allowed us to uh put out a lot more
content, a lot more learning content,
etc. We as a management team are not
necessarily tracking like, oh, are you
doing something that AI can do or not?
We're just really trying to tell
everyone uh try to be as as efficient as
possible with AI and and our employees
are doing that. And can you give me some
of the best examples from Duolingo for
someone who's watching this and they're
like, "Okay, my manager tells me to
start using AI, but I have no idea how
to do it." Do you have like best-case
examples? It depends on what your job
role is. I think most of our engineers
have basically really changed their
workflows. They're using AI coding
tools. A lot of our product managers
what they've decided to do is
using AI to make prototypes of things.
So, the product manager may not be
implementing the thing in the full
production app, but rather than coming
to us with a written document, they come
with a prototype now. That's
way better because it allows for much
better decision-making. So, if somebody
comes to me with a written proposal and
says, "You know, I'm going to do a a way
to teach Spanish better."
It's hard for me to know what that
actually means, but if they just show me
the prototype and I can see that it
really does seem to teach Spanish
better, it's much easier to to give
approval to that type of thing. So, it
it depends a lot in the role. Do you
give them any guidance? Like, "Okay,
instead of doing this, do that next
time." Or how how do they even find out
they can do these things with AI? We try
to do some things in the whole company
to try to you know, we had for example a
few months ago, we had
a day where everybody in the company had
to vibe code something
not just engineers. Every single person,
people from you know, HR, people from
the finance team, everybody had to vibe
code something. So, everybody
could see the power of it. We also have
a lot of documentation about best
practices. But generally, people here
in Duolingo are pretty smart. They're
always finding new things and I think
what happens is rather than management
telling them what to do, they tell each
other what to do. There's we have a lot
of Slack channels. You know, one of them
is called best AI practices. Mhm. And
so, people are just saying stuff. We
also have another one that's called AI
fails, which is all the times all the
things that people try.
>> one.
>> It is an incredible thing, very
empowering for people to like, "Oh my
god, I made
I'm you know, usually they're very small
apps, but it's like I made an app." One
of the things that has happened inside
this company is everybody now has made
their own dashboard. So, For their KPIs
or something?
>> whatever it is, whatever it is they're
tracking. I mean, I see a few product
managers that have vibe coded a whole
thing with like, "Our users in every
country and what they're doing."
>> That's that's super impressive. And is
that how you track AI proficiency cuz
now it's part of performance reviews,
right, at Duolingo? For a while it was
part of performance reviews. We decided
not to do that and I'll tell you why. I
sent the memo to the company that said,
you know, part of your performance
review is going to be usage of AI.
And we found that people were
I don't know if they were doing that,
but they were kind of asking, like, "Do
you just want us to use AI for AI's
sake?"
And at the end we backtracked and we
said, "No, look,
the most important thing in your
performance is that you are doing, you
know, whatever your job is as well as
possible. A lot of times AI can help you
with that, but if it can't,
There you go.
>> to force you to do that. So, I think we
backtracked from that because it really
it felt like rather than being held
accountable for the actual outcome,
we're trying to just push something that
in some cases did not fit." And um do
you have a specific example where
somebody did something in a week without
AI and then with AI they kind of
multiplied the output?
>> We now teach chess on Duolingo. So, you
know, for a long time we only taught
languages. Now we teach a few other
things. Chess is the latest course we
added. This course got started by two
people,
neither of whom knew chess,
neither of whom knew how to program.
They basically vibe coded the first
prototype of it. Now, the final version
that is actually in the app, of course
we put some engineers in there, etc.,
but they really got very far. In a span
of about 6 months they created a whole
curriculum for chess. They created a
prototype of the app all
entirely with with AI and again these
people did not know any chess. And whose
idea was that? Was it their idea? It was
their idea to do that. They also it was
well they're the ones who wanted to add
chess. Uh by the way they came to me a
year earlier to say we want to add
chess. I said I don't want to add chess.
Um because it's just a game and we're an
education app. But what happened was
that um a few months later I talked to
the Minister of Education of my country.
I'm from Guatemala. And she said to me
our education system our public
education system in Guatemala is so
broken that I'm considering sending
every student a chessboard so that at
least they'll learn logical thinking.
And when she said that to me I thought
oh wow okay this is actually useful.
>> Yes. So then uh this is when I told them
okay you can add the chess course. But I
said to them
but I don't have any engineers to give
you so go ahead and they they figured it
out.
>> Six months right? About six months yeah.
>> And now is your fastest growing course?
Yeah. It's I mean at this point we have
7 million daily active users that are
learning chess. Wow this is fascinating.
Uh can you tell me step by step what was
their process? So if somebody's watching
and they're like wow if Duolingo is able
to do such a spin-off which is kind of
different from languages. If I want to
start something with AI and build a fast
growing product what are the like five
steps they need to take? These two guys
the first thing they did was probably
learn chess.
Probably because they didn't know any
chess. And that's one of the reasons
they wanted to add it cuz they
themselves wanted to learn chess.
But after that what they did is they
really started looking at
you know kind of the different tools
that are out there for
learning chess. They they're basically
doing market research try to figure out
what's out there for learning chess.
They found that really what was out
there was not all that great.
And then they decided to start live
coding something. To be fair this person
does have some technical knowledge.
They're not an engineer but they have
some technical knowledge. Um and so they
downloaded cursor and at first they made
just chess puzzles. Um then they
realized that the AI was not very good
at making chess puzzles.
So then they decided to train it with
some There's a There's an online
database of a lot of different chess
puzzles, so they trained the AI with
that, and it got a lot better.
And then after that, what they started
doing was just more and more mobile
prototypes for me to play with until I
told them that it was kind of good
enough to to really put it in the app.
And then you put it in the app, and then
did you give it an external push, or
people just started discovering it in By
putting it in the app, very quickly a
lot of people came. But chess really has
a big draw. I mean, we put other courses
in the app that have not grown as as
much. For example, it turns out chess is
more fun than math. Well, so someone a
student who just heard about your chess
course that was spun out so quickly, and
they want to start building something
with AI today. What advice would you
give them?
Well, the
biggest advice I can give them is to
start. You know, a lot of people talk a
lot about starting. They They're like,
"Oh, I have an idea, but I
The biggest thing is just sit down and
do it. You
You will learn a lot by just trying to
do it. So that's that's the biggest
thing.
Um other than that, uh you know, try to
learn how to some of the best tools
work. Certainly Vibe coding will help
you a lot. But it's not just Vibe
coding. I mean, trying to make, you
know,
the uh initial designs for it. Now you
can have AI tools to make the initial
screens and everything. So use it all
and try to make try to make the thing. I
mean,
I haven't haven't quite yet seen
somebody who knows nothing about uh
programming to really make a good app,
but I have seen people who know a little
bit about programming make
Mhm. you know, make apps. So I I would
tell you it's still worthwhile learning
kind of the structure of programs.
Um that seems important. So even even
though you may you may not actually need
to program like word-by-word, I just
knowing how things work, for example,
knowing the difference between the
server and the client. Like just these
very basic things, I think that's
important. Did Did it give you more
ideas to add more courses that are
non-language related?
>> Yeah, it's given us a lot of ideas.
We're not We're not yet working on other
stuff, but we have a long list of things
that we, you know, we want to teach all
kinds of things. K-12 science, we want
to teach. Again, we're not yet working
on that. We want to teach K-12 science.
We want to teach how to draw. There's
all kinds of things, but at the moment
we're not really working on them because
we want to continue working on chess,
math, music, and languages. Got it. But
then any employee go and write code one
of these courses and show you and maybe
they can make
>> what I tell the company, by the way. A
lot of times people come to me and
they're like, "What course are you going
to add next?" And I, you know what I One
of the things I tell them is, uh uh
I wanted to add K-12 science
and then we added math. I I wanted to
add K-12 science and then we added
music. I wanted to add K-12 science and
then we added chess. At this point, I
also want to add K-12 science, but it
turns out that what people do here is
somebody comes up with a really good
idea and if it's good and they're
passionate about it, we let them do it.
Yeah, they do it. Let's go back to the
actually the AI failure chat. Can you
recall any examples of AI actually
failing in a task? Oh, yeah. I mean,
there's a lot of things where it's where
it's failing. I'll I'll tell you the
biggest one, which I think we're
starting to see a difference here, but
it wasn't the case a year ago. If you
were to look at Twitter,
um and just read what people are saying
on Twitter. Two years ago, I should have
fired all our engineers because on
Twitter, they're like,
"AI is better at coding than engineers."
This is kind of For the last 2 years,
this is what they've been saying on
Twitter. And it was an interesting thing
because I would come here and I would
not really see a speed up on
engineering. Mhm. Uh and I'm like,
"Well, what's the disconnect? Why you
know, there's all these people saying
that AI is better at coding than
humans?" And the reality is it's not yet
the case that AI is better at coding
than humans. I I think you still really
need engineers and you're going to need
them for a long time, I think. But we've
just seen a lot of cases where, uh you
know, you tell the AI to to program
something and sometimes it works. But
the other, I don't know, what fraction
time it doesn't work. But when it
doesn't work, there's a real problem in
that because you don't really know what
it did, it's really hard to debug it.
And that's kind of what has happened
that you get into
the the happy path is really fast. Okay,
it worked. But the unhappy path makes it
so that it takes so long that you end up
spending more effort on that than the
time you saved on the other things. So
we've seen that quite a bit. We've also
seen AI not be able to generate things
like
narrative like stories. Sometimes it
does a good job. Sometimes it doesn't do
a great job and it just
comes up with things that don't make any
sense. You know, it's interesting
because when you see a demo and you ask
it to come up with a story, somehow
those demos always look amazing. But
then when you try to come up with a
hundred stories, you realize that only
like 30 are good and the other 70 are So
humans still need to check and select.
>> Oh, check. Yeah, yeah, all our content
needs to be there there's a lot of steps
to try to either check it or spot check
it or or something to make sure that the
quality's high. So if we compare today
and a year ago, how much more productive
the company is with AI? I don't know.
It's more in pockets. And I don't know
if any larger company that has seen like
a 10x speed up in like
>> think so. I think startups really see it
cuz when you're a one-person team, then
you A one person can do a lot of stuff.
With a larger company, it's harder. It
just turns out for example, most
engineers don't spend
8 hours a day coding. They have to go to
meetings. They have to So there's a part
of it that you just cannot speed up.
Then there's the part that they spend
coding. Okay, maybe you can speed that
up, but you cannot speed it up at least
at the moment you cannot speed it up by
a thousand x. You can just maybe I don't
know, a little faster. So overall, we're
not seeing like we're putting out 10
times as many features. We're not. We're
seeing some speed ups here and there in
different pockets of the company. But
again, it's what you said. One-person
companies are a lot faster, but it's
because you don't have to interface with
all the other parts of the company, etc.
Also, AI is not as good with existing
code bases rather than with a brand new
code base. We've been talking a lot
about how AI is changing the way people
learn and retain information. And that
got me thinking about something I
changed in how I organize my own daily
life and work. Someone told me once, "If
you're not capturing everything that
happens in your calls with your team,
you're actually losing to other
companies. You're losing decisions that
were made. You're losing context that
gets dropped, things you committed to
and then you just forgot." Team syncs,
strategy sessions, call with investors,
even a quick conversation with a
contractor, it all disappears the moment
the call ends. And I don't know about
you, but I'm on calls every single day.
Sometimes I forget to press record,
sometimes I don't think the conversation
is worth recording, but then after the
conversation I realize, "I have to
actually record that." One of my friends
told me, "Marina, you should start using
Grainola, you'll be blown away." And now
I use it on every single call. Now, it
is an AI notepad for meetings, but it's
not a bot that joins your Zoom and makes
everyone uncomfortable. It transcribes
your computer's audio in the background
while you stay completely present in the
conversation. It listens to every call
automatically and if it's a recurring
call, it merges them by folders. So, by
the time the meeting ends, you have
clean, structured notes ready to go. And
after the call, I chat with my notes.
I'm like, "Okay, we just had this
conversation. Can you create a follow-up
email that I'm going to send to Monica,
my manager? We're going to proceed with
this, this, and that." Creates the email
and I just send it. Takes 15 seconds. It
works across Zoom, Google Meet, and
Teams. It's one of those tools I
genuinely can't work without anymore.
And I don't think you'll be able to
either once you try it. Try it on your
very first meeting after this episode.
Head to grainola.ai/marina
to get 3 months of Grainola for free or
enter the code marina at checkout. I
left a link in the description. And now,
back to my conversation with Louis. What
about you as a founder? Does AI help you
make decisions or any workflows that
work for you? Research, sure. It used to
be the case that whenever I had
something that needed to be researched,
like, I don't know, what is the chess
landscape in India, for example.
You know, it used to be the case that I
needed to either spend a lot of time
myself or get a team of people to help
me, whereas now I can I can get a pretty
good idea by just asking Gemini or
something like that. Um so, research I
do a lot more by myself. That has helped
me, but ultimately the decisions are
being
made by me. It's not like I asked the
computer what would you decide. Okay. I
haven't
>> So, you don't use it as a coach or you
haven't vibe coded your own KPIs or
whatever.
>> I've done a bunch of vibe coding for
things, but yeah, certainly my KPIs, but
it's not
decisions I still make myself. Okay.
>> Yeah. Okay. I interview a lot of cool
people on this podcast. The past 3 weeks
I had Reid Hoffman and Bill Gurley, who
are legendary investors.
And I asked them a question, what is the
first market that's going to be
completely changed by AI and market you
should be looking at? And they told me
language.
Thank you so much. You know, it's been
my thing for 10 years. What do you
think? I don't know what that means,
change. So, Like you don't have to learn
a language, because everything is
translated.
>> I just don't buy that. Um
if you look at our users,
we have more than 100 million active
users.
Um half of them are learning as a hobby.
It's a hobby.
Whether AI can do it or not, it's a
hobby. Actually, chess is a great
example. You know, computers have been
better
at chess than humans since 1997.
A lot more people are learning chess
today than they were in 1997. It's a
hobby. So, for half of our learners,
it's a hobby, and I don't think whether
computers can do it or not, I don't
think it'll matter. The other half are
learning English.
And I think anybody who tells you that
people don't want to learn a language
has not had to learn English. It's It's
how you say like 50% they're really
learning other languages hobby.
>> Yes. English necessity. Yes. Well,
that's how it is in the world. If you're
learning
I'm sure there are I'm generalizing
here, but generally if you're learning
French, it's a hobby. It's not always
true. I'm sure there are people who
actually need to move to France, but
it's a small fraction. The majority of
people in the world that are learning
French
will, you know, want to feel cool when
they go to Paris so they can order a
croissant. And that's our use and again,
somebody who's lived their entire life
in the US has, you know, has never had
to learn English because that's their
native language, etc.
Will say something like, "Well,
languages are unnecessary, etc." But
somebody who's had to learn English
it's a different thing. It's just you
just need to learn English and you may
want to move to an English speaking
country. You may need to do an
educational like you may need to go to a
university. Nobody's going to be
allowing you to go to a university with
like a
a phone that translates everything the
professor says. Like that's just not
Yeah. So I'm just not particularly
worried about that. Is there a fraction
of the market? So I'm thinking about
translators for example. Somebody spends
like 4 years learning that. You
>> What would you say to those people?
Depends on on what it is, but there are
fractions of the market that are
probably going to change quite a bit.
Also, in terms of the demand, I agree
that some people may have wanted to
learn a a little bit of a language if
they were going to, you know, just visit
Germany for 2 days and that maybe now
they're just not going to do that
because they can just but I
at least when you look at Duolingo's
users, that's a very small minority of
our users. The majority really are hobby
or English. Um so I'm just not
particularly
>> I'm not. The other thing about language
translation is that simultaneous
language translation
has been really good for this is not an
LLM thing. Like LLMs are good at it,
too, but Google Translate did not use
LLMs and it was really good 10 years
ago. So I just you know, we've seen the
demand to learn a language actually go
up as opposed to go down. So this is not
something that we internally are worried
about. Okay. But I understand people say
that. Yeah, I'm also thinking like if
you have glasses for example that are
smart and they translate everything for
you automatically. I haven't seen the
case with the headphones. I don't think
people really use the the AirPods to
translate.
>> No. I'm thinking maybe it's glasses that
translate the signs. I don't know. It's
cuz when we came to Silicon Valley, I
think 2015, we were pitching our company
Language Trip that does like language
travel, language courses. Mhm. And I
think 50% but to your note, American
investors were like, "Oh, this is not a
market. Oh, this is going to go down.
Nobody
>> this problem at the entirety of the
company of Duolingo. We're a company
based in the United States.
Uh you know,
when we first pitched Duolingo to
investors here, you know, I don't know
however many years ago, the most common
thing is like
nobody really wants to learn a language.
Math though, people want to learn math.
And as you know, I'm sure investors
think that because they're good at math
and they wanted to learn math. But the
reality is there are more people
learning languages in the world than
there are people learning math. What was
your mindset when the smartest people in
the world tell you that?
You're like, "I don't care. I just I
mean, I you know, I grew up in
Guatemala. I could see what it was to
have to learn English. Look, it is a
huge thing to learn English. It changes
people's lives. I know. Cuz that's my my
case as well. It changes people's lives.
So
uh yeah. Do you have another word that
So you have an app, right? But now we're
in the era when anyone can write code an
app for themselves. What if I go to like
I'm learning English, I go to Quad and
ask, "Can you gamify my experience,
create me an app that's personalized to
me, you know, my interests, you know, my
hobbies?" Do you worry about that?
A little bit but not not really. I mean,
this is funny.
Inside the company, we never talk about
this. This is you know, we see again, we
see Twitter talking about that or
investors talking about that. But we
internally don't talk about that. Look,
ultimately
I think you can ask AI to make you an
app.
But making a really good app um is not
that easy. You know, ultimately, we for
example have data from
uh hundreds of millions of people about
how they learn a language. Every single
day more than a billion exercises are
answered on Duolingo and we use that
data to teach you better. And so we just
have a lot of data on how to keep you
motivated. You know, there's probably
2,000-3,000 language learning apps in
the world.
They've been there and now with live
coding there are now there will be
probably 20,000 rather than 2,000-3,000,
but at the moment we're just not
particularly concerned. You know,
something may happen.
>> anything cuz I'm asking you questions
about it cuz I talked to people and
they're like, "Oh, this is going to be
eliminated. This is going to be we're
done." And you're like, it's fine. No, I
don't I wouldn't say that it's like all
is fine. I do think a lot of things are
going to change. What do you think is
going to change? What are you preparing
for?
I think that
user expectations are going to change
and I think we have to stay ahead of it.
So, a good example is
you know, one of the things we have in
the app is uh conversation practice uh
with AI. When we first put that out
there, the cost of it was high for us.
So, we put it behind the most expensive
tier. So, that So, you have to pay a lot
of subscription to get the conversation
practice.
At the moment the cost of that has come
down enough
that we're going to start giving it to
the much cheaper tiers and we are
probably going to eventually give it
away for free. Mhm. We're doing that
because I believe that customers are
going to start expecting that. Like I
think there will be apps that start
doing this for free and if we don't do
it now, we'll be forced to do it in a
few years. So, that's the type of stuff
we're doing to prepare for this because
I I again, I think we just need to stay
ahead. Yeah, so users will expect more
from you.
>> I I think users will expect more. I
think I think users will expect the apps
to be a lot more intelligent, which they
should. Yeah. We're undergoing kind of a
platform shift here
and what ends up happening in platform
shifts is that the companies who were
the winner before the platform shift may
or may not remain the winner after that.
So, I hope that we can do that. Also
talking about uh AI and workforce, I
just talked to Gary Vaynerchuk and I
really like what he said. Like there are
a lot of rumors of people and news
people firing, like the large companies
firing people, and they say it's AI. And
then Gary said something that struck me
cuz he said like if I fire 100 people,
my competitor hires them, and they still
10x their output, like I'm dumb for
firing them. How do you think about
that? We have never
laid anybody off here. We have never
done a layoff. Despite what the internet
may think, Yeah, I think they
misunderstood you.
No.
>> We've never done a layoff here. I think
that it is
um
important to continue hiring people
because now, you know, the way I see it
is a single employee is just way more
productive now than they used to be. So,
you know, I get better return on
investment by having another employee.
So, that's how I see it. Um I mean, my
sense I of course cannot speak about the
very specific companies, but I my sense
is that at least in some of the cases
AI is just um
an easy PR reason. Yeah. I mean, usually
what happens is you over hired.
When you over hired, you're like, "Oh,
okay, because of AI we're going to do
that." I don't
At least
at Duolingo, the way we run the company,
I
I am surprised that there are companies
doing that cuz I've seen no reason.
Yeah. I talked I was just at Davos and I
was talking to somebody who releases
their jobs report. All the layoffs are
structural, like over hired during
COVID. So, it's not really
>> of companies over hired during COVID. I
I understand that. And then, you know,
if you over hired, you probably don't
need these people. Yeah.
>> But I, you know,
blaming AI is an is an easy scapegoat.
It is. It is. What he just said actually
worries me the most. Everyone's talking
about like AI replacing jobs and big
companies firing people. This is not
what's happening here, right? He's
actually hiring people, but he's hiring
those who know AI. Same for me. We're
We're just hiring a social media
manager, and the questions I was asking
them during the interview, how are you
going to automate this? How are you
going to use AI in this process?
Founders are looking for people who
utilize AI in their work. And this is
actually what my newsletter is about.
It's called Future Proof, and every week
I share what we learned with AI. Like my
PR person just wiped coded the whole
website with all the transcripts from
this podcast. And we share things like
that in the newsletter. So, first of
all, subscribe to this channel, and
second, subscribe to the newsletter. Can
we talk about the stock price? Cuz I
when I was preparing for this, I saw the
82% collapse of the stock. But what I
really want to talk about cuz you
explained that to your shareholders.
Can you walk me through your mindset as
a founder when you make such decisions
who make your users happy, but they
don't make your investors happy? Well,
the decision was made by AI, so I'm
kidding.
That is a joke. That is not what
happened.
I made that decision. Well, look,
we made a conscious shift in how we run
the company. I made the conscious shift,
and certainly the executive team was
behind me, but
we got to a point where,
you know, if you look at over the last 5
years,
we've grown a lot. We became a public
company in 2021.
We have grown our user base by more like
our active users by more than 5x since
then. So, we've grown a lot. We've also
grown our revenue by a similar amount,
etc. We've grown a lot, but
two things happened.
One is that
throughout 2025,
we we've been still growing, but we were
growing slower than we were growing in
previous years. So, that's one thing
that happened. Like our user base was
growing slower than in previous years.
The second thing that happened is
because of AI, I really do believe that
education is going to change quite a
bit. And we are a really
uh you know, important player in the
education category.
And I want to be in in a situation where
we can lead some of that change through
AI.
So, the combination of I want to lead
through that change in AI and our user
growth slowing down told me we need to
do something important.
Change how we operate so that we
continue grabbing as many users as
possible.
Now that comes with a cost, which is
we are not going to be monetizing our
user base as much as we were before.
And investors don't love that. Yeah. But
we knew you know when we made this
decision, we talked to of course all
internally our finance team. Everybody
agreed this is going to decrease our
stock price.
>> Yeah. Did you expect that number like 80
80 to 20?
>> I didn't know exactly what to expect
honestly, but I knew that it was going
to be a lot. Yeah. Um so we we we knew
that, but we made the decision
consciously because we think that if we
continue operating the way we were
operating, you know, we probably could
have continued growing a little bit etc.
but at some point it was going to be
capped. Whereas I think if we really try
to get a much larger user base, we're
going to be a much larger company in the
long term. And the thing is I'm
operating this company
uh I mean I'm hoping that this is my
last job and this is the last thing that
I do uh and I have many more years of
energy left.
>> And you never regretted the decision. Oh
no. No. That is amazing cuz as a founder
like again hearing from the market what
they think about your decision is tough.
>> It's tough. Wow.
>> I know I agree. I I agree. Look, it's
not that it hasn't been tough. I mean I
I don't regret the decision because I
believe that it is the right decision,
but it is you know it
Yeah, it's been tough. I I really still
I'm very convinced this is the right
decision. Do you feel like cuz you're a
founder of a publicly traded company,
does your mood depend on your stock
price? It used to. I when we first went
public it used to. I learned to stop
looking. Uh like at least every day. I
mean it's not that I
I don't it's not that I don't know the
the ballpark, but I don't look every
day. It used to be the case the first
the first year or so it'd be like it
went up by a dollar, it went down by a
dollar.
Now
Like you're used to it. Because
>> to it. As a creator my self-worth
depends on how my last video is
performing, which is
not right. Which is not good for my
mental health. I'm learning how to not
look at it. Well, I will tell you this.
The same is true for me but not with our
stock price. It's with daily active
users. So you still have the same as a
different mental health.
>> daily active users. So every every
morning yes, it's growing and everything
but every morning I you know our daily
active users report for the previous day
comes at 5:00 a.m. exactly. I am I wake
up very early. Every morning at 5:01
a.m. my mood
gets set.
It's not good. Do you think you should
adjust it for some reason?
>> good mentally but hey,
I prefer this than the stock price
though. This This makes more sense at
least.
>> This is something you can control for
some
>> I can control and it's an actual measure
of the health of this company. The stock
price some of it is you know over the
long term it is a good measure of the
health of this company but on a
day-to-day basis you know we used to
there were used to be the A stock the
stock price went down because like oil
prices changed and I'm like okay. Yeah,
I How is that related to me? Yeah.
>> Yeah.
Any other mental hacks cuz I'm I'm
talking to you again. You're not really
worried about AI. You learned how to
make stock price not control your mood.
Do you have any mental life hacks that
you developed as a founder during these
years? What helps you? What do you think
of what what do you do when something
goes bad? Do you go on walks to create
ideas? I mean don't get me wrong. When
something goes bad I you know it gets to
me. I it definitely gets to me. Um I try
to really think about the long term. One
of the things that has helped me the
most is really thinking about this. This
is not just about the company. This is
in general and of course I didn't invent
this. This is a lot of people say this.
Thinking about anything will this matter
in 6 months?
The vast majority of things will not
matter in 6 months. The vast majority of
things. So sometimes I get really upset
and I think about it. Will this matter
in 6 months?
Some things will, but the vast majority
of things will not matter in 6 months
and I that that makes me feel a lot
better because I think, okay, I'm I'm
upset for no reason because this is
going to fizzle out.
>> What about um
other things like marketing or content?
Do you think it matters for a founder?
Depending on what type of company you're
doing.
Uh certainly if you're doing a consumer
company, marketing is going to end up
mattering. One of the most important
things. It's going to end up mattering a
lot. I mean, I love our marketing team.
They are excellent. They've done some
really creative things over the years
and have helped us grow a lot. I don't
know of any hacks. I mean, ultimately,
you need to figure out how to get the
word out for your product. I will say I
have seen um many people
try to cover a bad product with good
marketing and that can only get you so
far. The reality is
if you want to really succeed, your
product has to be good. Yeah. Um I think
good product, bad marketing is not very
good, but bad product, good marketing is
worse.
Do you have time set for yourself every
week when you play with the new AI
tools? Or you just discover on the go?
>> I I don't know if I have time that I've
set for myself like that, but I mean,
basically what happens is I talk to some
of the employees.
I know who in the company is at the
forefront Mhm. and I talk to them and
then they tell me, oh, you should try
that. You should try that. And then I go
you know, I I try it and And for someone
who's employed at a company and they
want to hear advice from a founder whose
company is using AI, what would you say
to them? How do they start uh
implementing AI in their in their job?
Again, it depends a lot on their job. A
lot of different tools for a lot of
different things. It's not that hard to
find the right tool for your job. And
then try to use it and see if you can
automate parts of your job with it. I
mean, a lot of our employees have
automated part of parts of their job.
Not the whole thing, but parts of their
job. I like that they're doing this by
themselves. That actually says a lot
about the way you hire. Yeah, people are
doing this by themselves.
>> And when you're doing interviews now,
are you asking about like We do ask. We
want people here is to be open to it. I
mean, we really are you know, you do see
the people who are just a lot more open
to using AI versus the people who are
like, nah.
We want people who are more open. I
mean, you know, there's a good thing
that somebody said that I pretty much
believe. AI is not going to take your
job. Somebody using AI is going to take
your job. And I believe that is Yeah.
>> mostly true. It's 10x more productive.
So, yeah.
Do you believe that in 10 years we'll
have millions of AI agents in our
companies?
Probably. I mean, it's What I've learned
in the last especially the last few
years is that predicting the future is
has gotten much harder because of AI. If
you talk to me 10 years ago, I I sort of
could have told you what the next year
was going to look like or what the next
3 years were going to look like. It's
probably we're going to have a new
version of the iPhone. It's going to
have a better screen. It's like it was
just not that hard to predict. It was
kind of boring. It was not that hard to
predict.
Whereas now,
I'm very bad at predicting what's going
to happen.
>> But you're not nervous.
I am nervous not for the immediate term
and not necessarily for this company,
but I am nervous about
I do believe that some shift is going to
happen and I I'm nervous in that I just
don't know what that's going to be. I
mean, there's If you listen to different
founders, everybody's telling you things
that are pretty self-serving like, you
know, if if you work in a company that
makes AI for lawyers, they'll tell you
lawyers are going to disappear. Like
everybody's saying all these
self-serving things. I don't know what
they are, but I do think something's
going to change and I'm nervous cuz I
don't know what that is.
>> Nobody knows. Nobody does. Go with the
flow. Nobody does and I think the best
thing you can do is try to adapt as
poss- as fast as possible. And by the
way, I am glad that I'm not having to
choose a college career right now
because I have no idea what I would
choose. Yeah, it's even tougher now.
>> Yeah, I I have no idea what I would
choose. I have a blitz for you. So, I'm
going to name five professions and
you're going to make some predictions
what you think.
>> Oh, man. Predictions, I'm very bad at
that.
Well, like what your gut tells you. Gone
in 5 years, gone in 10 years, or not
going anywhere?
Let's try. Social media manager. You
mean for like a company? Yeah, like
coming up with scripts and
I don't think that's going anywhere.
That's what I think. I don't.
Translator.
I think there will be
Gone is a hard term
because I think there will still be
cases where we're going to want real
human translation, but there will be
fewer and fewer.
But I do think that for certain
situations we're going to want that.
Yes, it's a very It's going to turn into
very premium. Yeah. Um
but for most, you know, everyday uses,
yeah, it's going to go away. Okay.
Um teacher.
Oh, not going away.
I mean Are we going to have more
language teachers, you think? Teachers
serve a lot of things and I cannot
imagine they're going to go away. So, I
have a lot of thoughts about this. I
mean, I'm a former teacher. I used to be
a professor.
I think AI is going to be great at
teaching certain parts, certainly giving
you a lot of repetition, maybe even
adapting to what you learn, but
ultimately teachers are great at putting
things into context. They're also really
great at um
making people want to do something.
They're very inspiring.
When I was growing up, I wanted to be
like my teachers. And it's kind of hard
to want to be like an AI. Like I don't I
don't really want to be like an AI, but
a teacher, they're very inspiring.
They're um they put into things into
context. I mean, at the moment, I'm
pretty certain that if you have a really
great teacher
um that
is better than not having a really than
not having a teacher.
Again, not all teachers are equally
good, etc. etc., but By the way, today,
computers are not as good at teaching as
a really great teacher. That has not yet
happened. I think it may start getting
to the point where in certain aspects
they're about as good, but I think
having a teacher will always be better
than not. I agree. Right, that's what I
think. So, I I don't believe that it's
going anywhere. We're going to learn
with AI, like do some stuff, but we
still need someone human to reply to.
>> This is what I think This is what I
think. I I It's also It's incredibly
hard to keep people motivated. And
teachers are have ways to get people
motivated to do certain things. And and
just, you know, they start noticing
things like, "Oh, that student feels
left out. I'm going to do something
about it."
>> Yeah. This is pretty hard to do with AI.
So, I I just can't imagine this is going
to go away. But, Makes sense.
Strategist. I don't know if you tried AI
for strategy, but for me,
>> It's good. So good. Sometimes it notices
things I wouldn't even think about.
Like, it was like, "You were not working
on geo for your podcast."
>> Mhm. I'm like, "Oh, shoot. Yes, I am
not." Uh I agree.
>> not appearing in any searches. I
recently asked the Slack has a Slack bot
and sees all my conversations. And I
asked it uh to give me uh what are my
areas for improvement.
And it was excellent. That's a very good
prompt.
>> me exactly what I like It basically told
me exactly what my 360 told me, but in a
much more concise way. And certain
things it's really excellent. Um
strategy I
don't know. I don't I don't know the
answer to that question. I I would say
there's probably still some
You know, thing about AI is that it's
really good at kind of known things. I
still think that there's going to be
some amount of human ingenuity necessary
for certain types of strategy. So,
again, it may be that it just becomes a
very premium thing. Okay, project
manager. Oh, no, I don't think that's
going to go away. In my experience,
project managers, if you need multiple
people working on something,
really good project managers
have really good EQ
and end up figuring out why a project is
not working. And a lot of times, the
project is not working because that
person doesn't get along with that
person. Like, stuff like that.
Um
I think that's going to be hard. Again,
there's parts of the the of the process
that are
that can be automated, but in general I
I can't imagine that the AI is going to
be really good at, you know, sitting two
people there and being like, "You two
are not getting along. You need to start
getting along." That seems hard. So as
someone who's running a company, do you
think there there any positions that are
going away in the nearest future or they
just going to be transformed? I think
most of it is going to be transformed
and I think what I think will happen is
that some companies, particularly
companies that are not growing a lot,
are going to find that they can do the
same with fewer people.
So it may not be very specific
professions, but it will be like, "Do we
need
a hundred people doing customer service
or can we do so with only 10?"
I think that will have happen. The
entire profession going away is kind of
hard. I mean, even customer service with
a lot of people say like, "Oh, customer
service going to go away." You probably
still need a couple of humans there
being Yeah, you probably still need some
people to orchestrate it. So I do think
that
you'll find some companies that will
need fewer people over time. Yeah, I
totally totally feel that. We wanted to
hire someone who would do my scripting
for Instagram, but then I'm like, "Okay,
I'll I'll just try Claude." And then I
created a Claude project and it was so
good. I'm like, "Okay, I don't need to
hire anyone. We can my social media
manager can just do that now." So it's
basically doing more with less people.
Would you want to start again in 2026 if
you could? Like if you could go
back to your how old you were when you
started? I probably would start again,
but if you ask me to choose between
whether I want to start today or 15
years ago, I'm very happy we started 15
years ago.
Yeah,
because we we now got to this point
where, you know,
with Duolingo we have
we have a lot of money because we're
profitable, we have like, I don't know,
more than a billion dollars in the bank,
we have a large user base, we have a
large install base, so I I feel pretty
good about the situation that we're in.
Whereas if we were to start today,
boy, I don't know. I mean, it's pretty
pretty hard to start today, I think. I
mean, I would do it, but I What would
you start? Same thing?
If Duolingo didn't exist, yeah. I mean,
given that Duolingo exists, I don't know
if I would start that. I would probably
>> languages or something else? Like
teaching people AI or chess? No, I would
start with languages.
Interestingly, I am personally not a
major language learning nerd. I'm not.
Neither is my co-founder, Severin.
Um
What is interesting is that in
retrospect, I'm very happy we started
with languages. I don't know of another
subject, even though we've done a lot of
research, I don't know of another
subject that gets learned as much. If
you look, it's about 2 billion people in
the world learning languages. That's the
number.
There's any other subject is less. I
mean,
math is a billion.
1 billion people is Math is basically
You know the number of people learning
math in the world is
highly highly correlated, like identical
almost, as the number of people in the
world that are in K-12 education. It's
about a billion. Nobody is learning math
as a hobby.
>> learning math for pleasure.
>> No. I mean, I'm sure I mean, I'm sure
there are, but this is a tiny fraction
of the population. Um so, math has about
a billion.
Uh anything You know, chess is like 100
million, something like that. Um
any subject A K-12 science is a few
hundred million. Programming is like 20
million. And when it comes to spending
money, is So, language is 60 billion.
It depends on who's spending the money.
Yeah. Governments are spending a ton
teaching math.
But it's governments. And that's hard
That money is hard to get to because
governments are But so, there's probably
more spent on math, but it's because
it's the governments. And what about So,
consumers is still the language?
>> Yes, I think so. By the way, of those 2
billion people that are learning
language, about 1.8 billion are learning
English. Yeah. So, English is just
really big. It's crazy. I didn't realize
that. Cuz I thought it would be like
math or now AI maybe software
engineering. You and I live in a bubble.
We do. We live in a bubble. That's true.
Because we got out of their cultures
into this bubble and now we're here and
we forget.
>> Maybe programming right now with AI
coding who knows what's going to happen.
But a few years ago
whenever we would meet investors they
would be like you know the thing
everybody wants to learn is coding.
>> Yeah. It's about 20 million people in
the world that were learning coding.
That's it. That That's it.
>> Maybe they're willing to pay more. Like
if you want to take a programming course
you you probably pay like a thousand two
thousand because you know you're going
to get a job.
>> Yes.
>> With language it's a long long journey.
>> Yes. 100% Now if we're an app this is
one of the things we one of the reasons
we never did programming.
We as an app cannot charge $10,000. It's
an app. Like we charge $6 a month. That
is how much we charge. Maybe we could
charge $20 a month. We can't charge
10,000. So this is why we go for things
that have hundreds of millions of people
learning them because we need to be a
larger business. And so these these
things that require people paying
>> like service business. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Wow that's fascinating. Thank you so
much. Thank you for being positive in
2026. That's really rare. Okay. Positive
yeah. Yeah thank you. I'm nervous but
it's no use to be thinking like the
world's going to end. Going outside
Silicon Valley you see
you like I I was expecting you to say oh
I use open claw to automate all the
reports. I'm not writing my emails like
you're not saying that. Same same Gary
Vaynerchuk. I was expecting him to do
like oh this is my client is full
automation but he said I just hired two
copywriters.
I'm like okay New York is very different
from Silicon Valley.
>> Yeah it is. And it's very refreshing.
And for everyone who's watching it's a
great idea to start a a business like
helping people learning AI. I I think
so. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Thank you so much.
>> No thank you thank you. I mentioned Gary
V several times throughout this episode.
I actually filmed a podcast with him on
the same trip when I filmed Luis. He's
thinking positively about everything
that's happening right now. So, if you
are someone who wants to start a
business now, but if you're afraid that
a bigger company's going to take over,
watch that episode. It's going to give
you a lot of enthusiasm about starting
in 2026.